Reflection Essay

To be honest, I chose this course at the very beginning because this is one of the required courses I have to take for graduation. However, I changed my mind very soon, I felt that this course taught me something from another perspective or angle, which is asking a good question instead of just solve problems.
I have some mathematics and stats background, also I had some work experience as a Data Analyst, however, I haven’t got a chance to work on educational data. I thought every data are the same, If I have the capacity to deal one kind of data, then I just deal every kind of data. It turns out I’m wrong.
My personal goal was to learn some new technique or algorithm when this semester started. Yes, my goal changed. Now, I consider more on how to ask a good question. 
The biggest takeaway or best experience from this course is the last EDM project. Firstly, I have to say that I’ve learned a lot from this group project, but not from the perspective of technique. When we just started doing this assignment, our first step was totally wrong. We should have to figure out what question we should ask or what problem we want to solve? Instead, we tried to find a dataset. Yes, we did find a dataset that qualified for our assignment, but this dataset constrained our direction, we can only ask “questions” regarding this specific dataset. It’s no longer a problem we want to solve, it became a problem we have to solve. 
I realized I made a lot of the same mistakes before; I always started my work from the second step instead. I think this is why I always feel lost at the very beginning and felt more struggle when work is progressing. 
The good part of this assignment was we as a team supported each other, although our project is not perfect, we all had our own takeaway from this experience.
I really enjoyed the 8 ICE assignments we did in this course. I felt each one of them had been elaboratively designed, and all the example and references are very intuitive. Although, many of them I was very familiar with, these ICEs helped me picking up a lot of points that I had forgotten. With more exposure to educational data, I feel that I’m way more confident than before when I’m dealing with this kind of data, since I’m also working at a K to 12 education company, this confidence supported me a lot in my work.
After finishing this course. I aim to put more effort in educational data. I plan to use this holiday to think deeper and figure out what I really want. I was thinking to using my data science experience to help people get better learning experience through internet. Now, I just feel that this goal is too broad, I should narrow this topic to a more specific question to solve. Such as, how to improve students engagement rate when they are taking quiz online?
